The First Book of Moses: Called Genesis 1:1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. 1:2 And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep.
And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. 1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. 1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness. 1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night.
And the evening and the morning were the first day. 1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. 1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so. 1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven.
Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat? 3:12 And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. 3:13 And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done?
And he said, Jacob. 32:28 And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. 32:29 And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name.
And he said, The children which God hath graciously given thy servant. 33:6 Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves. 33:7 And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves. 33:8 And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met?
And he said, Here am I. 3:5 And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. 3:6 Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
And he put forth his hand, and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand: 4:5 That they may believe that the LORD God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath appeared unto thee. 4:6 And the LORD said furthermore unto him, Put now thine hand into thy bosom.
Now their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kirjathjearim. 9:18 And the children of Israel smote them not, because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the LORD God of Israel.
And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee.
Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer? 8:3 God hath delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of you?
I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide any thing from me of all the things that he said unto thee. 3:18 And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him.
And they understood that the ark of the LORD was come into the camp. 4:7 And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp.
And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath.
And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about thither. 5:9 And it was so, that, after they had carried it about, the hand of the LORD was against the city with a very great destruction: and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret parts. 5:10 Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron.
And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king. 10:25 Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before the LORD.
And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house. 10:26 And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose hearts God had touched. 10:27 But the children of Belial said, How shall this man save us?
And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armourbearer were not there. 14:18 And Saul said unto Ahiah, Bring hither the ark of God.
Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God. 14:37 And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?
And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee. 14:41 Therefore Saul said unto the LORD God of Israel, Give a perfect lot.
And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in mine hand, and, lo, I must die. 14:44 And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan. 14:45 And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel?
God forbid: as the LORD liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day.
And one said, Behold, they be at Naioth in Ramah. 19:23 And he went thither to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah. 19:24 And he stripped off his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night.
O LORD God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant.
And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth. 28:14 And he said unto her, What form is he of?
And he said, Thy servant is he. 9:3 And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul, that I may shew the kindness of God unto him?
And he fell down to the earth upon his face before the king, and said, Blessed be the LORD thy God, which hath delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against my lord the king. 18:29 And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe?
God do so to me, and more also, if thou be not captain of the host before me continually in the room of Joab. 19:14 And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the heart of one man; so that they sent this word unto the king, Return thou, and all thy servants. 19:15 So the king returned, and came to Jordan.
And Araunah said unto the king, The LORD thy God accept thee. 24:24 And the king said unto Araunah, Nay; but I will surely buy it of thee at a price: neither will I offer burnt offerings unto the LORD my God of that which doth cost me nothing.
And they blew the trumpet; and all the people said, God save king Solomon. 1:40 And all the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great joy, so that the earth rent with the sound of them. 1:41 And Adonijah and all the guests that were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating.
This is the noise that ye have heard. 1:46 And also Solomon sitteth on the throne of the kingdom. 1:47 And moreover the king's servants came to bless our lord king David, saying, God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and make his throne greater than thy throne.
For his sons had seen what way the man of God went, which came from Judah. 13:13 And he said unto his sons, Saddle me the ass.
So they saddled him the ass: and he rode thereon, 13:14 And went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak: and he said unto him, Art thou the man of God that camest from Judah?
And he spake unto him, Thou man of God, the king hath said, Come down. 1:10 And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, If I be a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty.
And he answered and said unto him, O man of God, thus hath the king said, Come down quickly. 1:12 And Elijah answered and said unto them, If I be a man of God, let fire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty.
And the fire of God came down from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty. 1:13 And he sent again a captain of the third fifty with his fifty.
And the oil stayed. 4:7 Then she came and told the man of God.
And she said, Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thine handmaid. 4:17 And the woman conceived, and bare a son at that season that Elisha had said unto her, according to the time of life. 4:18 And when the child was grown, it fell on a day, that he went out to his father to the reapers. 4:19 And he said unto his father, My head, my head.
And she said, It shall be well. 4:24 Then she saddled an ass, and said to her servant, Drive, and go forward; slack not thy riding for me, except I bid thee. 4:25 So she went and came unto the man of God to mount Carmel.
And it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, that he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunammite: 4:26 Run now, I pray thee, to meet her, and say unto her, Is it well with thee? is it well with thy husband? is it well with the child?
And she answered, It is well: 4:27 And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught him by the feet: but Gehazi came near to thrust her away.
And it came to pass, as they were eating of the pottage, that they cried out, and said, O thou man of God, there is death in the pot.
And there was no harm in the pot. 4:42 And there came a man from Baalshalisha, and brought the man of God bread of the firstfruits, twenty loaves of barley, and full ears of corn in the husk thereof.
So he departed from him a little way. 5:20 But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold, my master hath spared Naaman this Syrian, in not receiving at his hands that which he brought: but, as the LORD liveth, I will run after him, and take somewhat of him. 5:21 So Gehazi followed after Naaman.
And when they came to Jordan, they cut down wood. 6:5 But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water: and he cried, and said, Alas, master! for it was borrowed. 6:6 And the man of God said, Where fell it?
And it was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan. 6:14 Therefore sent he thither horses, and chariots, and a great host: and they came by night, and compassed the city about. 6:15 And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and gone forth, behold, an host compassed the city both with horses and chariots.
And he smote thrice, and stayed. 13:19 And the man of God was wroth with him, and said, Thou shouldest have smitten five or six times; then hadst thou smitten Syria till thou hadst consumed it: whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice. 13:20 And Elisha died, and they buried him.
And the men of the city told him, It is the sepulchre of the man of God, which came from Judah, and proclaimed these things that thou hast done against the altar of Bethel. 23:18 And he said, Let him alone; let no man move his bones.
And God granted him that which he requested. 4:11 And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the father of Eshton. 4:12 And Eshton begat Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Irnahash.
And David heard of it, and went out against them. 14:9 And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim. 14:10 And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines?
And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers. 34:33 And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all the countries that pertained to the children of Israel, and made all that were present in Israel to serve, even to serve the LORD their God.
The LORD his God be with him, and let him go up.
So I prayed to the God of heaven. 2:5 And I said unto the king, If it please the king, and if thy servant have found favour in thy sight, that thou wouldest send me unto Judah, unto the city of my fathers' sepulchres, that I may build it. 2:6 And the king said unto me, (the queen also sitting by him,) For how long shall thy journey be? and when wilt thou return?
And the king granted me, according to the good hand of my God upon me. 2:9 Then I came to the governors beyond the river, and gave them the king's letters.
Then I called the priests, and took an oath of them, that they should do according to this promise. 5:13 Also I shook my lap, and said, So God shake out every man from his house, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise, even thus be he shaken out, and emptied.
And there was very great gladness. 8:18 Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the book of the law of God.
Remember me, O my God, for good.
Thus did Job continually. 1:6 Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them. 1:7 And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou?
What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil?
Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. 3:1 Lord, how are they increased that trouble me! many are they that rise up against me. 3:2 Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in God.
Selah. 4:1 Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer. 4:2 O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing?
Selah. 4:3 But know that the LORD hath set apart him that is godly for himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him. 4:4 Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still.
Selah. 9:17 The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God. 9:18 For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever. 9:19 Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in thy sight. 9:20 Put them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to be but men.
Selah. 32:6 For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they shall not come nigh unto him. 32:7 Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble; thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance.
Selah. 47:1 O clap your hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice of triumph. 47:2 For the LORD most high is terrible; he is a great King over all the earth. 47:3 He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet. 47:4 He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob whom he loved.
Selah. 49:14 Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling. 49:15 But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me.
Selah. 52:4 Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue. 52:5 God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living.
When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad. 54:1 Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength. 54:2 Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth. 54:3 For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul: they have not set God before them.
Selah. 62:5 My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him. 62:6 He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall not be moved. 62:7 In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God. 62:8 Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us.
Selah. 66:5 Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men. 66:6 He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him. 66:7 He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves.
Selah. 84:5 Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; in whose heart are the ways of them. 84:6 Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain also filleth the pools. 84:7 They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. 84:8 O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob.
Selah. 84:9 Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. 84:10 For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand.
Selah. 140:6 I said unto the LORD, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD. 140:7 O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle. 140:8 Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves.
The LORD looseth the prisoners: 146:8 The LORD openeth the eyes of the blind: the LORD raiseth them that are bowed down: the LORD loveth the righteous: 146:9 The LORD preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down. 146:10 The LORD shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations.
This also I saw, that it was from the hand of God. 2:25 For who can eat, or who else can hasten hereunto, more than I? 2:26 For God giveth to a man that is good in his sight wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God.
And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all the graven images of her gods he hath broken unto the ground. 21:10 O my threshing, and the corn of my floor: that which I have heard of the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto you. 21:11 The burden of Dumah.
O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? are not your ways unequal? 18:30 Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, saith the Lord GOD.
Now thou, O Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation thereof, forasmuch as all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known unto me the interpretation: but thou art able; for the spirit of the holy gods is in thee. 4:19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was astonied for one hour, and his thoughts troubled him.
But Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship; and he lay, and was fast asleep. 1:6 So the shipmaster came to him, and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us, that we perish not. 1:7 And they said every one to his fellow, Come, and let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us.
That he might seek a godly seed.
Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. 2:16 For the LORD, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away: for one covereth violence with his garment, saith the LORD of hosts: therefore take heed to your spirit, that ye deal not treacherously. 2:17 Ye have wearied the LORD with your words.
But ye said, Wherein shall we return? 3:8 Will a man rob God?
Ye cannot serve God and mammon. 6:25 Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on.
If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. 27:41 Likewise also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said, 27:42 He saved others; himself he cannot save.
I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not. 5:8 For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. 5:9 And he asked him, What is thy name?
And they said unto him, Caesar's. 12:17 And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.
And they marvelled all. 1:64 And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he spake, and praised God. 1:65 And fear came on all that dwelt round about them: and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judaea. 1:66 And all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall this be!
I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God. 4:35 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him.
And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father. 9:43 And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God.
And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe: 22:68 And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go. 22:69 Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God. 22:70 Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God?
Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. 8:40 But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham. 8:41 Ye do the deeds of your father.
He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see. 9:16 Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day.
And they cast him out. 9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 9:36 He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? 9:37 And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. 9:38 And he said, Lord, I believe.
Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days. 11:40 Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God? 11:41 Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid.
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice. 14:1 Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. 14:2 In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you.
Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for I find no fault in him. 19:7 The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. 19:8 When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more afraid; 19:9 And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou?
Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 21:18 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. 21:19 This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God.
And she constrained us. 16:16 And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damsel possessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her masters much gain by soothsaying: 16:17 The same followed Paul and us, and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God, which shew unto us the way of salvation. 16:18 And this did she many days.
Is God unrighteous who taketh vengeance?
(I speak as a man) 3:6 God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world? 3:7 For if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory; why yet am I also judged as a sinner? 3:8 And not rather, (as we be slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say,) Let us do evil, that good may come? whose damnation is just. 3:9 What then? are we better than they?
Nay: but by the law of faith. 3:28 Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. 3:29 Is he the God of the Jews only? is he not also of the Gentiles?
Yes, of the Gentiles also: 3:30 Seeing it is one God, which shall justify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith. 3:31 Do we then make void the law through faith?
God forbid: yea, we establish the law. 4:1 What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to the flesh, hath found? 4:2 For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory; but not before God. 4:3 For what saith the scripture?
Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? 6:2 God forbid.
God forbid.
God forbid.
If God be for us, who can be against us? 8:32 He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? 8:33 Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God's elect?
It is God that justifieth. 8:34 Who is he that condemneth?
Amen. 9:6 Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect.
Is there unrighteousness with God?
For who hath resisted his will? 9:20 Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God?
For Esaias saith, Lord, who hath believed our report? 10:17 So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. 10:18 But I say, Have they not heard?
God forbid.
For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. 11:2 God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew.
Wot ye not what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession to God against Israel saying, 11:3 Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life. 11:4 But what saith the answer of God unto him?
For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God. 13:2 Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. 13:3 For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil.
Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same: 13:4 For he is the minister of God to thee for good.
Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him stand. 14:5 One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day alike.
All things indeed are pure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence. 14:21 It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor any thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak. 14:22 Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God.
I am glad therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning evil. 16:20 And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly.
If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. 3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God.
Why do ye not rather take wrong? why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded? 6:8 Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren. 6:9 Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God?
Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body. 6:14 And God hath both raised up the Lord, and will also raise up us by his own power. 6:15 Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot?
God forbid. 6:16 What? know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body? for two, saith he, shall be one flesh. 6:17 But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. 6:18 Flee fornication.
A brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases: but God hath called us to peace. 7:16 For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? 7:17 But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, so let him walk.
Doth God take care for oxen? 9:10 Or saith he it altogether for our sakes?
For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God toward you. 13:5 Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove your own selves.
Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall be with you. 13:12 Greet one another with an holy kiss. 13:13 All the saints salute you. 13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all.
It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made; and it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator. 3:20 Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one. 3:21 Is the law then against the promises of God?
To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. 3:2 Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision. 3:3 For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. 3:4 Though I might also have confidence in the flesh.
Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. 4:7 Submit yourselves therefore to God.
Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. 4:8 Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you.
Fear God.
Amen. 5:12 By Silvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand. 5:13 The church that is at Babylon, elected together with you, saluteth you; and so doth Marcus my son. 5:14 Greet ye one another with a kiss of charity.
I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one. 2:15 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world.
God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. 4:17 Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world. 4:18 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment.
This is the true God, and eternal life. 5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
This is a deceiver and an antichrist. 1:8 Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. 1:9 Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God.
He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God. 1:12 Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true. 1:13 I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee: 1:14 But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to face.
Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood, 1:6 And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever.
And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God. 19:10 And I fell at his feet to worship him.
