What do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries.
How then is this?
Are the green fields gone?
What do they here?
Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all those ships attract them thither?
What is the chief element he employs?
Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what is the one charm wanting?--Water--there is not a drop of water there!
Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see it?
Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?
Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?
Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land?
Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy?
Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?
What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?
What does that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New Testament?
Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance?
Who ain't a slave?
But BEING PAID,--what will compare with it?
Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan?
And where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with imported cobblestones--so goes the story--to throw at the whales, in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit?
But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear? get away from before the door; your patched boots are stopping the way.
Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah?
But "The Crossed Harpoons," and "The Sword-Fish?"--this, then must needs be the sign of "The Trap."
Coffin?--Spouter?--Rather ominous in that particular connexion, thought I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there.
But what thinks Lazarus?
Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights?
Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here?
Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the line of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost?
But stop; does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish? even the great leviathan himself?
"But avast," he added, tapping his forehead, "you haint no objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?
Supper?--you want supper?
"Landlord," I whispered, "that aint the harpooneer is it?"
"The devil he does," says I. "Where is that harpooneer?
Is he here?"
Bulkington! where's Bulkington?" and darted out of the house in pursuit of him.
Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight--how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?
The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal a march on him--bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the most violent knockings?
"Landlord!" said I, "what sort of a chap is he--does he always keep such late hours?"
"Can't sell his head?--What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?" getting into a towering rage.
"Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around this town?"
"With what?" shouted I. "With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?"
"Broke," said I--"BROKE, do you mean?"
This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me--but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal business as selling the heads of dead idolators?
But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner, he exclaimed "I vum it's Sunday--you won't see that harpooneer to-night; he's come to anchor somewhere--come along then; DO come; WON'T ye come?"
But what is this on the chest?
But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise?
"Who-e debel you?"--he at last said--"you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e."
"Stop your grinning," shouted I, "and why didn't you tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?"
"I thought ye know'd it;--didn't I tell ye, he was a peddlin' heads around town?--but turn flukes again and go to sleep.
Queequeg, look here--you sabbee me, I sabbee--you this man sleepe you--you sabbee?"
But who could show a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints, seemed like the Andes' western slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates, zone by zone.
Whence came they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?
Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that?
But what then?
Can it be, then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties and connexions?
What could be more full of meaning?--for the pulpit is ever this earth's foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads the world.
But WHAT is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches?
And where is Cadiz, shipmates?
See ye not then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?
So he makes the best of it; and when the sailors find him not to be the man that is advertised, they let him pass, and he descends into the cabin. "'Who's there?' cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making out his papers for the Customs--'Who's there?'
'I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?'
'No sooner, sir?'--'Soon enough for any honest man that goes a passenger.'
'I'll sail with ye,'--he says,--'the passage money how much is that?--I'll pay now.'
'What is thine occupation?
Whence comest thou?
Thy country?
What people?
Fear him, O Jonah?
And what was that, shipmates?
Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low?
Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out the lifetime of his God?"
How then could I unite with this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?
But what is worship? thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven and earth--pagans and all included--can possibly be jealous of an insignificant bit of black wood?
But what is worship?--to do the will of God--THAT is worship.
And what is the will of God?--to do to my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me--THAT is the will of God.
And what do I wish that this Queequeg would do to me?
Didn't the people laugh?"
"Now," said Queequeg, "what you tink now?--Didn't our people laugh?"
"Hallo, _you_ sir," cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking up to Queequeg, "what in thunder do you mean by that?
Don't you know you might have killed that chap?"
"What him say?" said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
Was there ever such unconsciousness?
Are these last throwing out oblique hints touching Tophet?
Upon making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little room, and seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently concluded repast, turned round to us and said--"Clam or Cod?"
"What's that about Cods, ma'am?" said I, with much politeness.
"Clam or Cod?" she repeated.
"A clam for supper? a cold clam; is THAT what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?" says I, "but that's a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter time, ain't it, Mrs. Hussey?"
"Queequeg," said I, "do you think that we can make out a supper for us both on one clam?"
We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks I to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the head?
What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people?
"But look, Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl?
Where's your harpoon?"
"Why not?" said I; "every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon--but why not?"
But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for breakfast, men?"
"Is this the Captain of the Pequod?" said I, advancing to the door of the tent.
"Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?" he demanded.
"Thou wast, wast thou?
I see thou art no Nantucketer--ever been in a stove boat?"
"Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say--eh?
Dost see that leg?--I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of the marchant service to me again.
But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?--it looks a little suspicious, don't it, eh?--Hast not been a pirate, hast thou?--Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?--Dost not think of murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?"
"But what takes thee a-whaling?
"Want to see what whaling is, eh?
Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?"
"Who is Captain Ahab, sir?"
"What do you mean, sir?
Was the other one lost by a whale?"
SURE, ye've been to sea before now; sure of that?"
I have given thee a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for it?"
Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's throat, and then jump after it?
Now then, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order to see the world?
Was not that what ye said?
"Well, what's the report?" said Peleg when I came back; "what did ye see?"
"Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world?
Do ye wish to go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh?
Can't ye see the world where you stand?"
"Bildad," cried Captain Peleg, "at it again, Bildad, eh?
How far ye got, Bildad?"
"Dost thee?" said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round to me.
"What do ye think of him, Bildad?" said Peleg.
"Thou knowest best," was the sepulchral reply, "the seven hundred and seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it?--'where moth and rust do corrupt, but LAY--'" LAY, indeed, thought I, and such a lay! the seven hundred and seventy-seventh!
Now then, my young man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say?
"Captain Peleg," said I, "I have a friend with me who wants to ship too--shall I bring him down to-morrow?"
"What lay does he want?" groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been burying himself.
"Has he ever whaled it any?" turning to me.
"And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab?
When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?"
Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?
There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;--but what of that?
"I say, Queequeg! why don't you speak?
"Wood-house!" cried I, "which way to it?
"What's the matter with you, young man?"
"Look here," said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one hand free; "look here; are you talking about prying open any of my doors?"--and with that she seized my arm.
"What's the matter with you?
What's the matter with you, shipmate?"
Has the poor lad a sister?
Where's that girl?--there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint me a sign, with--"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;"--might as well kill both birds at once.
What's that noise there?
"Queequeg," said I, going up to him, "Queequeg, what's the matter with you?"
"He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?" said the landlady.
"What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?" said I, now jumping on the bulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf.
Son of darkness," he added, turning to Queequeg, "art thou at present in communion with any Christian church?"
"First Congregational Church," cried Bildad, "what! that worships in Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?" and so saying, taking out his spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the wigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at Queequeg.
"How long hath he been a member?" he then said, turning to me; "not very long, I rather guess, young man."
"Do tell, now," cried Bildad, "is this Philistine a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy's meeting?
What church dost thee mean? answer me."
I say, tell Quohog there--what's that you call him? tell Quohog to step along.
I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did you ever stand in the head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a fish?"
Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon the bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging to the side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his harpoon, cried out in some such way as this:-- "Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere?
You see him? well, spose him one whale eye, well, den!" and taking sharp aim at it, he darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across the ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for signing, he turned to me and said, "I guess, Quohog there don't know how to write, does he?
I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name or make thy mark?"
Tell me, when this same Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan, that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not think of Death and the Judgment then?"
Death and the Judgment then?
Think of Death and the Judgment then?
"Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?"
"Have ye shipped in her?" he repeated.
"Anything down there about your souls?"
"About what?"
"What are you jabbering about, shipmate?" said I. "HE'S got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort in other chaps," abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis upon the word HE.
"Ye said true--ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder yet, have ye?"
"Who's Old Thunder?" said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner.
"What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod?"
Ye hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?"
"What do you know about him?"
"What did they TELL you about him?
But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights; nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in Santa?--heard nothing about that, eh?
Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into?
Didn't ye hear a word about them matters and something more, eh?
No, I don't think ye did; how could ye?
Who knows it?
"ALL about it, eh--sure you do?--all?"
With finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; then starting a little, turned and said:--"Ye've shipped, have ye?
Names down on the papers?
But stop, tell me your name, will you?"
"Going aboard?"
"Ain't going aboard, then?"
"Yes, we are," said I, "but what business is that of yours?
Do you know, Mr. Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?"
"Ye be, be ye?
Coming back afore breakfast?"
But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said--"Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that ship a while ago?"
Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and touching my shoulder again, said, "See if you can find 'em now, will ye?
"Find who?"
I was going to warn ye against--but never mind, never mind--it's all one, all in the family too;--sharp frost this morning, ain't it?
"Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?" said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper.
"Face!" said I, "call that his face? very benevolent countenance then; but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, you are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor.
"What's that for, Queequeg?"
"Holloa!" he breathed at last, "who be ye smokers?"
"Shipped men," answered I, "when does she sail?"
"Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye?
"What Captain?--Ahab?"
"Who but him indeed?"
Captain Ahab is all ready--just spoke to him--nothing more to be got from shore, eh?
"Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?" he roared.
Know ye now, Bulkington?
Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the treacherous, slavish shore?
Terrors of the terrible! is all this agony so vain?
But even granting the charge in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to drink in all ladies' plaudits?
Why did the Dutch in De Witt's time have admirals of their whaling fleets?
Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit out whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two of families from our own island of Nantucket?
Why did Britain between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of L1,000,000?
How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in whaling?
THE WHALE NO FAMOUS AUTHOR, AND WHALING NO FAMOUS CHRONICLER?
Who wrote the first account of our Leviathan?
And who composed the first narrative of a whaling-voyage?
And who pronounced our glowing eulogy in Parliament?
NO GOOD BLOOD IN THEIR VEINS?
WHALING NOT RESPECTABLE?
THE WHALE NEVER FIGURED IN ANY GRAND IMPOSING WAY?
NO DIGNITY IN WHALING?
But after embattling his facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise, which might tell eloquently upon his cause--such an advocate, would he not be blameworthy?
How they use the salt, precisely--who knows?
Can it be, though, that they anoint it with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery?
But the only thing to be considered here, is this--what kind of oil is used at coronations?
What then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted state, the sweetest of all oils?
What doom was his own father's?
Where, in the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?
"Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb," said Ahab, "that thou wouldst wad me that fashion?
Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go back and strike him, or--what's that?--down here on my knees and pray for him?
How he flashed at me!--his eyes like powder-pans! is he mad?
Didn't that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds the old man's hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on it?
He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's that for, I should like to know?
Who's made appointments with him in the hold?
Ain't that queer, now?
But how's that? didn't he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on top of THAT!
What the devil's the matter with me?
By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though--How? how? how?--but the only way's to stash it; so here goes to hammock again; and in the morning, I'll see how this plaguey juggling thinks over by daylight."
How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?
What business have I with this pipe?
'Why,' thinks I, 'what's the row?
'What are you 'bout?' says he.
'What am I about?' says I at last.
'And what business is that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback?
Do YOU want a kick?'
By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a clout--what do you think, I saw?--why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out.
'Halloa,' says I, 'what's the matter now, old fellow?'
Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?'
'Very good,' says he--'he used his ivory leg, didn't he?'
'Yes, he did,' says I. 'Well then,' says he, 'wise Stubb, what have you to complain of?
Didn't he kick with right good will? it wasn't a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?
Don't you see that pyramid?'
Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?"
D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the stern?
What's that he shouts?
"What do you think of that now, Flask? ain't there a small drop of something queer about that, eh?
A white whale--did ye mark that, man?
Will he the (leviathan) make a covenant with thee?
Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as conspicuously to label him for all time to come?
What then is the whale, which I include in the second species of my Folios?
How then?
Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's anatomy more striking than his baleen?
What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way.
Wherefore this difference?
A problem?
But all in vain; those young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve?
"D'ye mark him, Flask?" whispered Stubb; "the chick that's in him pecks the shell.
Vehemently pausing, he cried:-- "What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?"
"And what do ye next, men?"
"And what tune is it ye pull to, men?"
Look ye! d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?"--holding up a broad bright coin to the sun--"it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.
D'ye see it?
"Moby Dick?" shouted Ahab.
"Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?"
"Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?" said the Gay-Header deliberately.
"And has he a curious spout, too," said Daggoo, "very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?"
"Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby Dick that took off thy leg?"
"Who told thee that?" cried Ahab; then pausing, "Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.
What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now?
But what's this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale? art not game for Moby Dick?"
How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab? it will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market."
"He smites his chest," whispered Stubb, "what's that for? methinks it rings most vast, but hollow."
How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the wall?
Who's over me?
Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this matter of the whale?
And what is it?
What is it more?
From this one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?
Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come?
O men, you will yet see that--Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner.
Disdain the task?
What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?
Cant them; cant them over! know ye not the goblet end?
Is, then, the crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy.
Dry heat upon my brow?
Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye swerve yourselves! man has ye there.
Swerve me?
Why so?
Well, Stubb, WISE Stubb--that's my title--well, Stubb, what of it, Stubb?
What's my juicy little pear at home doing now?
Crying its eyes out?--Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la! lirra, skirra!
A brave stave that--who calls?
Mr. Starbuck?
Eight bells there! d'ye hear, bell-boy?
What say ye?
Damn me, won't you dance?
Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle?
Me too; where's your girls?
Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d'ye do?
Jinglers, you say?--there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.
Eh, Pagan?
How then, if so be transplanted to yon sky?
Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown the villages?--The blast! the blast!
What of that?
What's that I saw--lightning?
Why then, God, mad'st thou the ring?
Jollies?
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?
White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr!
The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one tell whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick?
Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag?
What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still?
Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are?
Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all imaginations?
But how had the mystic thing been caught?
Why should this be so?
But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to account for it?
Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely acquainted with the peculiar character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hooded with new-fallen snow?
Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protestant of the Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?
Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and kings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Tower of London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American, than those other storied structures, its neighbors--the Byward Tower, or even the Bloody?
And those sublimer towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiar moods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is full of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess?
Or why, irrespective of all latitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a spectralness over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets?
Or, to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in reading the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does "the tall pale man" of the Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides through the green of the groves--why is this phantom more terrible than all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?
Yet where is the mariner who will tell thee, "Sir, it was not so much the fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous whiteness that so stirred me?"
Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled in some peaceful valley of Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey--why is it that upon the sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so that he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness--why will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in phrensies of affright?
There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black bisons of distant Oregon?
Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids and immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the thought of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky way?
Or is it, that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour as the visible absence of colour; and at the same time the concrete of all colours; is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, full of meaning, in a wide landscape of snows--a colourless, all-colour of atheism from which we shrink?
Wonder ye then at the fiery hunt?
Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?"
"Hist! did you hear that noise, Cabaco?"
"Take the bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d'ye mean?"
"Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye?
But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople?
And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries--tallied him, and shall he escape?
Was it not so, O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?
Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the Tattoo Land?
King of Japan, whose lofty jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky?
Do you suppose that that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan--do you suppose that that poor fellow's name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at your breakfast?
In fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea?
Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a similar fright?
"Where-away?"
While yet the wondering ship's company were gazing upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, "All ready there, Fedallah?"
"Lower away then; d'ye hear?" shouting across the deck.
"Captain Ahab?--" said Starbuck.
Didn't I hear 'em in the hold?
And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it?
What say ye, Cabaco?
"Why don't you break your backbones, my boys?
What is it you stare at?
Those chaps in yonder boat?
Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?
Pull, will ye? pull, can't ye? pull, won't ye?
Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes don't ye pull?--pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out!
Will you mount?"
Fits? yes, give him fits--that's the very word--pitch fits into 'em.
But what the devil are you hurrying about?
"Queequeg," said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck, and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water; "Queequeg, my fine friend, does this sort of thing often happen?"
I suppose then, that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the height of a whaleman's discretion?"
Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into death's jaws?"
"Can't you twist that smaller?" said Flask.
Considering that with two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and extraordinary difficulties; that every individual moment, indeed, then comprises a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the hunt?
Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye?
Have ye seen the White Whale?"
"Swim away from me, do ye?" murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.
There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?
And as for Pirates, when they chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the first hail is--"How many skulls?"--the same way that whalers hail--"How many barrels?"
What does the whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather?
But what is a GAM?
Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?' said Don Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.
I wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the model of his nose.' "'Damn your eyes! what's that pump stopping for?' roared Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk.
Pardon: who and what are they?' "'Canallers, Don, are the boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal.
You must have heard of it.' "'Nay, Senor; hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but little of your vigorous North.' "'Aye?
Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty. "'Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?' demanded their ringleader. "'Turn to! turn to!--I make no promise;--to your duty!
Do you want to sink the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?
Turn to!' and he once more raised a pistol. "'Sink the ship?' cried Steelkilt.
What say ye, men?' turning to his comrades.
Down ye go.' "'Shall we?' cried the ringleader to his men.
Only three were left. "'Better turn to, now?' said the Captain with a heartless jeer. "'Shut us up again, will ye!' cried Steelkilt. "'Oh certainly,' the Captain, and the key clicked.
"Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain; who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said, 'I won't do it--let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?'
At his leisure, he employed the interval in braiding something very carefully in his watches below. "'What are you making there?' said a shipmate. "'What do you think? what does it look like?' "'Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me.' "'Yes, rather oddish,' said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length before him; 'but I think it will answer.
Shipmate, I haven't enough twine,--have you any?'
"But there was none in the forecastle. "'Then I must get some from old Rad;' and he rose to go aft. "'You don't mean to go a begging to HIM!' said a sailor. "'Why not?
Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help himself in the end, shipmate?' and going to the mate, he looked at him quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock.
Sir sailor, but do whales have christenings?
Whom call you Moby Dick?' "'A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;--but that would be too long a story.' "'How? how?' cried all the young Spaniards, crowding. "'Nay, Dons, Dons--nay, nay!
With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so much as clicked in the lock, he would bury him in bubbles and foam. "'What do you want of me?' cried the captain. "'Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?' demanded Steelkilt; 'no lies.' "'I am bound to Tahiti for more men.' "'Very good.
Did you get it from an unquestionable source?
Bear with me if I seem to press.' "'Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Sebastian's suit,' cried the company, with exceeding interest. "'Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?' "'Nay,' said Don Sebastian; 'but I know a worthy priest near by, who will quickly procure one for me.
I go for it; but are you well advised? this may grow too serious.' "'Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?' "'Though there are no Auto-da-Fe's in Lima now,' said one of the company to another; 'I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.
Where did Guido get the model of such a strange creature as that?
What shall be said of these?
Of course, he never had the benefit of a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that picture, who can tell?
As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them?
For though some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and though taking a broad general view of the thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers to the sagacious kindness of the dog?
Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon the other?
Consider all this; and then turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in yourself?
It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick? thought Daggoo.
"What was it, Sir?" said Flask.
But why say more?
"Cook, cook!--where's that old Fleece?" he cried at length, widening his legs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper; and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing with his lance; "cook, you cook!--sail this way, cook!"
"Cook," said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth, "don't you think this steak is rather overdone?
Don't I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough?
There are those sharks now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough and rare?
You hear?
"Who dat?
How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and bitin' dare?"
Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat whale?
In the first place, how old are you, cook?"
How old are you, cook?" "'Bout ninety, dey say," he gloomily muttered.
"And you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook, and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?" rapidly bolting another mouthful at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of the question.
"Where were you born, cook?" "'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin' ober de Roanoke."
"Didn't I say de Roanoke country?" he cried sharply.
"Come back here, cook;--here, hand me those tongs;--now take that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be?
"Cook," said Stubb, squaring himself once more; "do you belong to the church?"
And yet you come here, and tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?" said Stubb.
"Where do you expect to go to, cook?"
Now what's your answer?"
"Fetch him?
In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah?
And fetch him where?"
"So, then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead?
But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?
Main-top, eh?"
"You said up there, didn't you? and now look yourself, and see where your tongs are pointing.
Do ye hear?
What! that your heart, there?--that's your gizzard!
"Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't you?
Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that done, dish it; d'ye hear?
D'ye hear? away you sail, then.--Halloa! stop! make a bow before you go.--Avast heaving again!
Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal's jaw?
Cannibals? who is not a cannibal?
But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that is adding insult to injury, is it?
Look at your knife-handle, there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is that handle made of?--what but the bones of the brother of the very ox you are eating?
And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that fat goose?
And with what quill did the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally indite his circulars?
The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale?
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of the North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?
Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend?
Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb's boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?
"That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.--Where away?"
"Hast thou seen the White Whale?" demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.
"Can'st not read it?" cried Ahab.
Aye, aye, it's but a dim scrawl;--what's this?"
But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook get fixed in that hole?
Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew in and then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea--what matters it, after all?
Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men in this whaling world?
For now, as with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory glance hands him--what?
Some hot Cognac?
"Ginger?
Do I smell ginger?" suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near.
Then standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the astonished steward slowly saying, "Ginger? ginger? and will you have the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of ginger?
Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire in this shivering cannibal?
Ginger!--what the devil is ginger?
Sea-coal? firewood?--lucifer matches?--tinder?--gunpowder?--what the devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor Queequeg here."
Is the steward an apothecary, sir? and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters by which he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?"
"Aye, aye, steward," cried Stubb, "we'll teach you to drug a harpooneer; none of your apothecary's medicine here; you want to poison us, do ye?
You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder us all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye?"
What were you about saying, sir?"
"Wants with it?" said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat's bow, "did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale's head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right Whale's on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never afterwards capsize?"
"Why not?
Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved into a snake's head, Stubb?"
Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been stowed away on board ship?
"He sleeps in his boots, don't he?
"What's the old man have so much to do with him for?"
"Bargain?--about what?"
Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?"
'What for?' says the old governor.
But look sharp--ain't you all ready there?
"Three Spaniards?
Adventures of those three bloody-minded soladoes?
Did ye read it there, Flask?
I guess ye did?"
But now, tell me, Stubb, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same you say is now on board the Pequod?"
"Am I the same man that helped kill this whale?
Doesn't the devil live for ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead?
Did you ever see any parson a wearing mourning for the devil?
And if the devil has a latch-key to get into the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can crawl into a porthole?
Tell me that, Mr. Flask?"
"How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?"
"Do you see that mainmast there?" pointing to the ship; "well, that's the figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string along in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that wouldn't begin to be Fedallah's age.
Now, if he's so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard--tell me that?
"Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you, though--yes, and drown you--what then?"
Damn the devil, Flask; so you suppose I'm afraid of the devil?
Who's afraid of him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him and put him in double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devil kidnapped, he'd roast for him?
"Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?"
"Do I suppose it?
"And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?"
"Do with it?
Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;--what else?"
"Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?"
"Didn't I tell you so?" said Flask; "yes, you'll soon see this right whale's head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti's."
As the external difference between them is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this moment hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one to the other, by merely stepping across the deck:--where, I should like to know, will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than here?
In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes the front of a man--what, indeed, but his eyes?
How is it, then, with the whale?
True, both his eyes, in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one side of him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction?
Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear which is smaller than a hare's?
But if his eyes were broad as the lens of Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of hearing?
Not at all.--Why then do you try to "enlarge" your mind?
Good Lord! is this the road that Jonah went?
Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not think you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its thousand pipes?
Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's there?
Does not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in facing death?
When two large, loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the sailors do?
But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the provincials then?
What befell the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's veil at Lais?
"In heaven's name, man," cried Stubb, "are you ramming home a cartridge there?--Avast!
How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head?
Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished?
But, peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this?
How many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and sweetly perished there?
But how?
Genius in the Sperm Whale?
Has the Sperm Whale ever written a book, spoken a speech?
If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could not read the simplest peasant's face in its profounder and more subtle meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale's brow?
Under all these circumstances, would it be unreasonable to survey and map out the whale's spine phrenologically?
"What has he in his hand there?" cried Starbuck, pointing to something wavingly held by the German.
"Not that," said Stubb, "no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's coming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big tin can there alongside of him?--that's his boiling water.
"Who's got some paregoric?" said Stubb, "he has the stomach-ache, I'm afraid.
It's the first foul wind I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so before? it must be, he's lost his tiller."
"I tell ye what it is, men"--cried Stubb to his crew--"it's against my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villainous Yarman--Pull--won't ye?
Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye?
Do ye love brandy?
Come, why don't some of ye burst a blood-vessel?
The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?"
Don't ye love sperm?
The bank of England!--Oh, DO, DO, DO!--What's that Yarman about now?"
What d'ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces for the honour of old Gayhead?
What d'ye say?"
Suspended? and to what?
Is this the creature of whom it was once so triumphantly said--"Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish-spears?
This the creature? this he?
Who had darted that stone lance?
And when?
"Hold on, hold on, won't ye?" cried Stubb to the body, "don't be in such a devil of a hurry to sink!
"Knife?
If I claim the demigod then, why not the prophet?
Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?
What club but the whaleman's can head off like that?
How is that?
But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that short distance of Nineveh?
What then remained?
How is this?
Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere descending for good?
But what does he want of them?
But then again, what has the whale to say?
But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject?
You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not tell water from air?
And if at such times you should think that you really perceived drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they are not merely condensed from its vapour; or how do you know that they are not those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout-hole fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale's head?
But if I know not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? much more, how comprehend his face, when face he has none?
But how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land? does his crew drink air?
Who struck?--Two whale; one big, one little!"
"What ails ye, man?" cried Starbuck.
First: What is a Fast-Fish?
Is it not a saying in every one's mouth, Possession is half of the law: that is, regardless of how the thing came into possession?
What are the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is the whole of the law?
What to the rapacious landlord is the widow's last mite but a Fast-Fish?
What is yonder undetected villain's marble mansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish?
What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poor Woebegone, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family from starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish?
What is the Archbishop of Savesoul's income of L100,000 seized from the scant bread and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of heaven without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular L100,000 but a Fast-Fish?
What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets but Fast-Fish?
What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish?
What to that apostolic lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish?
And concerning all these, is not Possession the whole of the law?
What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress?
What was Poland to the Czar?
What Greece to the Turk?
What India to England?
What at last will Mexico be to the United States?
What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish?
What all men's minds and opinions but Loose-Fish?
What is the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish?
What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but Loose-Fish?
What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish?
And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
At length one of them, after long scratching about for his ideas, made bold to speak, "Please, sir, who is the Lord Warden?"
"But the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish?"
"We have been at great trouble, and peril, and some expense, and is all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters?"
"Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of getting a livelihood?"
"Won't the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?"
Is this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?
But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail?
But is the Queen a mermaid, to be presented with a tail?
"A wooden rose-bud, eh?" he cried with his hand to his nose, "that will do very well; but how like all creation it smells!"
Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he bawled--"Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy! are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that speak English?"
"Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?"
"WHAT whale?"
"The WHITE Whale--a Sperm Whale--Moby Dick, have ye seen him?
"What's the matter with your nose, there?" said Stubb.
"Broke it?"
"But what are you holding YOURS for?"
Fine day, ain't it?
Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will ye, Bouton-de-Rose?"
"What in the devil's name do you want here?" roared the Guernseyman, flying into a sudden passion.
"Oh! keep cool--cool? yes, that's the word! why don't you pack those whales in ice while you're working at 'em?
But joking aside, though; do you know, Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales?
"What shall I say to him first?" said he.
"What now?" said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.
"What now?" said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to them.
Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be found in the heart of such decay; is this nothing?
Now how did this odious stigma originate?
What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude?
Must it not be to that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which was led out of an Indian town to do honour to Alexander the Great?
Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath, he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb, exclaimed interrogatively, "Cut?"
The intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it?
But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate?
If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his assistants', would you be very much astonished?
"All ready there?
My God! what is the matter with me? thought I. Lo! in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship's stern, with my back to her prow and the compass.
What then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing wonderful?
Signs and wonders, eh?
So, what's all this staring been about?
He luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side of the mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's back again; what does that mean?
Now, in what sign will the sun then be?
And what's the horse-shoe sign?
What says the Cannibal?
What does he say, with that look of his?
Ain't I a crow?
And where's the scare-crow?
"Wonder if he means me?--complimentary!--poor lad!--I could go hang myself.
But, unscrew your navel, and what's the consequence?
How did it get there?
Hast seen the White Whale?"
"See you this?" and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it, he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head like a mallet.
Where did'st thou see the White Whale?--how long ago?"
"And he took that arm off, did he?" asked Ahab, now sliding down from the capstan, and resting on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.
"Aye, he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?"
"Spin me the yarn," said Ahab; "how was it?"
(Bunger, you dog, laugh out! why don't ye?
Oh, you solemn rogue, you--you Bunger! was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world?
"What became of the White Whale?" now cried Ahab, who thus far had been impatiently listening to this by-play between the two Englishmen.
"Did'st thou cross his wake again?"
"But could not fasten?"
"Didn't want to try to: ain't one limb enough?
What should I do without this other arm?
Do you know, gentlemen"--very gravely and mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession--"Do you know, gentlemen, that the digestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine Providence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest even a man's arm?
There would be great glory in killing him, I know that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark ye, he's best let alone; don't you think so, Captain?"--glancing at the ivory leg.
How long since thou saw'st him last?
Which way heading?"
Which way heading?"
"What's the matter?
He was heading east, I think.--Is your Captain crazy?" whispering Fedallah.
Did I say we had flip?
But why was it, think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other English whalers I know of--not all though--were such famous, hospitable ships; that passed round the beef, and the bread, and the can, and the joke; and were not soon weary of eating, and drinking, and laughing?
But how now, Ishmael?
How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the whale?
Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a specimen rib for exhibition?
Can you land a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a roast-pig?
Think you I let that chance go, without using my boat-hatchet and jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the contents of that young cub?
Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!--pause!--one word!--whither flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all these ceaseless toilings?
"Aye, priests--well, how long do ye make him, then?"
Think you not then that brains, like yoked cattle, should be put to this leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman's imagination?
How, then, with me, writing of this Leviathan?
Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan?
Does the Whale's Magnitude Diminish?--Will He Perish?
But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may it not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?
But will any whaleman believe these stories?
Was it that this old carpenter had been a life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small outward clingings might have originally pertained to him?
What's Prometheus about there?--the blacksmith, I mean--what's he about?
Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay in one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no heart at all, brass forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let me see--shall I order eyes to see outwards?
Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he speaking to, I should like to know?
Shall I keep standing here?
That's it, hey?
What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
Carpenter? why that's--but no;--a very tidy, and, I may say, an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here, carpenter;--or would'st thou rather work in clay?
Sir?--Clay? clay, sir?
What art thou sneezing about?
Sir?--oh! ah!--I guess so;--yes--dear!
Look ye, carpenter, I dare say thou callest thyself a right good workmanlike workman, eh?
Canst thou not drive that old Adam away?
May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir?
Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to a hair, do I. Is't a riddle?
How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite?
In thy most solitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers?
And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery pains of hell for ever, and without a body?
Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.--How long before the leg is done?
What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and all three places standing in one hell--how was that?
"Who's there?" hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round to it.
"Up Burtons and break out?
Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?"
Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if found, in this life's howling gale?
"What will the owners say, sir?"
What cares Ahab?
Owners, owners?
Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?--On deck!"
Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain Ahab?"
"Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where go ye now?
But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little errand for me?
Where learned he that, but there?--Hark! he speaks again: but more wildly now."
Ho, where's his harpoon?
Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely?
Why tell the whole?
"Are these thy Mother Carey's chickens, Perth? they are always flying in thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;--look here, they burn; but thou--thou liv'st among them without a scorch."
Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou not go mad?
How can'st thou endure without being mad?
Do the heavens yet hate thee, that thou can'st not go mad?--What wert thou making there?"
"And can'st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hard usage as it had?"
"And I suppose thou can'st smoothe almost any seams and dents; never mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?"
Can'st thou smoothe this seam?"
Said I not all seams and dents but one?"
"Horse-shoe stubbs, sir?
"What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?" muttered Stubb, looking on from the forecastle.
"Would'st thou brand me, Perth?" wincing for a moment with the pain; "have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?"
Is not this harpoon for the White Whale?"
Will ye give me as much blood as will cover this barb?" holding it high up.
Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no more?
In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will never weary?
Where is the foundling's father hidden?
"Hast seen the White Whale?" gritted Ahab in reply.
Hast lost any men?"
"Of the hearses?
Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor coffin can be thine?"
"And who are hearsed that die on the sea?"
"And what was that saying about thyself?"
"And when thou art so gone before--if that ever befall--then ere I can follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?--Was it not so?
Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked up towards the sun and murmured to himself: "Thou sea-mark! thou high and mighty Pilot! thou tellest me truly where I AM--but canst thou cast the least hint where I SHALL be?
Or canst thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living?
Where is Moby Dick?
"What! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never mind how foolish?"
"Here!" cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his hand towards the weather bow, "markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the very course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat there; where is that stove?
"I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?"
"Who's there?"
"Are they overboard? drop them over, fore and aft.
But do they only have mercy on long faces?--have they no bowels for a laugh?
[SUDDEN, REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHTNING; THE NINE FLAMES LEAP LENGTHWISE TO THRICE THEIR PREVIOUS HEIGHT; AHAB, WITH THE REST, CLOSES HIS EYES, HIS RIGHT HAND PRESSED HARD UPON THEM.] "I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so?
The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?
Oh, cruel! what hast thou done with her?
Shall I strike it, sir?"
"Sir!--in God's name!--sir?"
Shall I get them inboard?"
Shall I strike that?
And how long ago is it since you said the very contrary?
Didn't you once say that whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of lucifers forward?
Stop, now; didn't you say so?"
"Well, suppose I did?
What then?
I've part changed my flesh since that time, why not my mind?
Besides, supposing we ARE loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get afire in this drenching spray here?
Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees?
What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't got any lightning-rod at all in a storm?
Don't you see, you timber-head, that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck?
What are you talking about, then?
Why don't ye be sensible, Flask? it's easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then? any man with half an eye can be sensible."
These are your iron fists, hey?
I say, just wring out my jacket skirts, will ye?
What's the use of thunder?
Loaded?
Best spill it?--wait.
But how fair?
Does he not say he will not strike his spars to any gale?
Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant? and in these same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this very Typhoon, did he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods?
But shall this crazed old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom with him?--Yes, it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab have his way.
Ha! is he muttering in his sleep?
Sleeping? aye, but still alive, and soon awake again.
Great God forbid!--But is there no other way? no lawful way?--Make him a prisoner to be taken home?
What! hope to wrest this old man's living power from his own living hands?
What, then, remains?
I stand alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between me and law.--Aye, aye, 'tis so.--Is heaven a murderer when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets and skin together?--And would I be a murderer, then, if"--and slowly, stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket's end against the door.
Great God, where art Thou?
Shall I? shall I?--The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed and set; she heads her course."
"Heading East at this hour in the morning, and the sun astern?"
Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?
"What's that?
Where wert thou born?"
"In the Isle of Man, hey?
Here's a man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man; which is sucked in--by what?
Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?"
"Pip? whom call ye Pip?
Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
"And who art thou, boy?
Who art thou, boy?"
Who's seen Pip the coward?"
"What's this? here's velvet shark-skin," intently gazing at Ahab's hand, and feeling it.
Mend it, eh?
Dost thou hear me?
"And shall I nail down the lid, sir?" moving his hand as with a hammer.
"And shall I caulk the seams, sir?" moving his hand as with a caulking-iron.
"And shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?" moving his hand as with a pitch-pot.
"Away! what possesses thee to this?
Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?
Were ever such things done before with a coffin?
I'll have me--let's see--how many in the ship's company, all told?
What's here?"
The hatchway? oh!
"Art not thou the leg-maker?
Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?"
"I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?"
But art thou not also the undertaker?"
"Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling, monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those same coffins?
Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin?
Dost thou never?"
"Sing, sir?
Do I sing?
Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against the churchyard gate, going in?
"Faith, sir, I've--" "Faith?
What's that?"
"I was about to say, sir, that--" "Art thou a silk-worm?
Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?
What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts?
Does it go further?
Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed sound?
"Hast seen the White Whale?"
Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?"
"Where was he?--not killed!--not killed!" cried Ahab, closely advancing.
"How was it?"
Who ever heard of two pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season?
I take back the coat and watch--what says Ahab?
Who's seen Pip?
What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there's no opening it.
Ha! what's this? epaulets! epaulets! the epaulets all come crowding!
What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy's host to white men with gold lace upon their coats!--Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip?--a little negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and cowardly!
Jumped from a whale-boat once;--seen him?
At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard from aft,--"Man the mast-heads!"--and all through the day, till after sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking of the helmsman's bell, was heard--"What d'ye see?--sharp! sharp!"
"Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Hast killed him?"
Then turning to his crew--"Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and lift the body; so, then--Oh!
Why this strife of the chase? why weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? how the richer or better is Ahab now?
Oh, Starbuck! is it not hard, that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from under me?
But do I look very old, so very, very old, Starbuck?
God!--crack my heart!--stave my brain!--mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus intolerably old?
"What is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what cozening, hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperor commands me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on all the time; recklessly making me ready to do what in my own proper, natural heart, I durst not so much as dare?
Is Ahab, Ahab?
Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this arm?
Look! see yon Albicore! who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish?
Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged to the bar?
Sleeping?
"What d'ye see?" cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky.
"And did none of ye see it before?" cried Ahab, hailing the perched men all around him.
All ready the boats there?
"The harpoon," said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one bended arm--"is it safe?"
"Lay it before me;--any missing men?"
At the well known, methodic intervals, the whale's glittering spout was regularly announced from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be reported as just gone down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch in hand, so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired, his voice was heard.--"Whose is the doubloon now?
D'ye see him?" and if the reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded them to lift him to his perch.
"What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck?
"Omen? omen?--the dictionary!
Cold, cold--I shiver!--How now?
D'ye see him?
"How heading when last seen?"
"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light to spread.
But to render this acuteness at all successful in the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman's allies; for of what present avail to the becalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his port?
"Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?" cried Ahab, when, after the lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard.
Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape yonder roof?--Aloft there! which way?"
"Sir?"
By heaven it cannot be!--missing?--quick! call them all."
MY line?
Gone?--gone?
What means that little word?--What death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.
The harpoon, too!--toss over the litter there,--d'ye see it?--the forged iron, men, the white whale's--no, no, no,--blistered fool! this hand did dart it!--'tis in the fish!--Aloft there!
Two days chased; twice stove to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil shadow gone--all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:-- "What more wouldst thou have?--Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he swamps the last man?
Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the sea?
Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world?
Believe ye, men, in the things called omens?
D'ye feel brave men, brave?"
Oh! how valiantly I seek to drive out of others' hearts what's clinched so fast in mine!--The Parsee--the Parsee!--gone, gone? and he was to go before:--but still was to be seen again ere I could perish--How's that?--There's a riddle now might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line of judges:--like a hawk's beak it pecks my brain.
"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.
And yet, 'tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever conquered it?
What d'ye see?"
How, got the start?
What's this?--green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.
But aye, old mast, we both grow old together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship?
What's that he said? he should still go before me, my pilot; and yet to be seen again?
But where?
Will I have eyes at the bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to.
"Sir?"
Strangest problems of life seem clearing; but clouds sweep between--Is my journey's end coming?
Feel thy heart,--beats it yet?
See ye my boy's hand on the hill?--Crazed;--aloft there!--keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:-- "Mark well the whale!--Ho! again!--drive off that hawk! see! he pecks--he tears the vane"--pointing to the red flag flying at the main-truck--"Ha! he soars away with it!--Where's the old man now? see'st thou that sight, oh Ahab!--shudder, shudder!"
Where is the second hearse?
Ye are not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.--Where's the whale? gone down again?"
"They will last long enough! pull on!--But who can tell"--he muttered--"whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on Ahab?--But pull on!
"What breaks in me?
Is't night?"
Will ye not save my ship?"
Is this the end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities?
Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking eye?
"Cherries?
Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed prow,--death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and without me?
Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains?
"The ship?
Great God, where is the ship?"
Why then here does any one step forth?--Because one did survive the wreck.
